in January Israel told the UN 12 of
their staff members working for unra
were involved in the October 7th attacks
all 12 were fired and the Secretary
General almost immediately ordered an
internal investigation into the claims
the investigation by the un's office of
internal oversight Services is ongoing
normally the UN doesn't release its
findings publicly but because 16
countries suspended funding to unra
fallowing the allegations on Friday the
secretary General's spokesperson gave an
update of the 12 unra staff Israel
accused the UN has closed one case
because no evidence was provided by
Israel to support their allegations
three cases were suspended as
information provided by Israel was not
sufficient the other eight cases are
still under investigation and in March
and April Israel went to the UN with
names of seven more employees it's said
also were part of October 7th one of
those cases the UN has suspended as well
pending more information from Israel the
other six remain under investigation the
UN said it was looking into what it
calls corrective measures for the staff
member whose case was closed the
Secretary General wants to be extremely
proactive for the sake of anoir right uh
for the sake also
of the uh tens of thousands of un other
Uno workers uh who are continuing to do
their job in the most difficult
circumstances right um so we will
continue we will go where the evidence
uh leads us um we will continue to
appeal to donors to support an to
support unwa generously un investigators
are expected to be back in Israel next
month so their final report is not
expected to be ready for at least a few
more weeks Gabriel zando Al jazer at the
United Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer